iPhone: Okay, I think we got
tracy jackson: Let's see, so you can hear now.
iPhone: Yes, thank you so much. Yes, I can. Thank you.
tracy jackson: Nice to meet you too. Natasha.
iPhone: Yes nitasha
tracy jackson: Nicely. I'm on the Tasha. Tell me something about yourself that has nothing to do with
tracy jackson: Pain or opioids or health or wellness just something about who you are, what you love to do.
tracy jackson: Oh,
iPhone: I have a five year old little boy who's my favorite thing on the planet name Luca and
iPhone: He has two dogs and he picked folks on the rescue center Wednesday Winky and Wednesday Wolfie so
iPhone: Got our W dogs.
tracy jackson: All right, thank you. We'll see you later.
tracy jackson: And what are the things that
tracy jackson: You're you value the most in your life that you're that you're most proud of and and
tracy jackson: That sort of make you you
iPhone: Oh gosh, a couple of things. Probably my family, my first off my family, my son, we lost my dad, two years ago. So that was that makes you appreciate your family, all the much more
iPhone: Yeah. And what else my law degree I guess kind of makes me a little bit of who I am and what I've done to my background so family is, you know, at school, and education. I think
tracy jackson: All right and and what would you say are your greatest strength.
iPhone: My greatest perseverance.
iPhone: Getting up every time you're knocked to the ground, over and over again.
iPhone: Yeah, play tenacity. Little bit.
iPhone: As the. Those are few
tracy jackson: All right. And before we get going. I just wouldn't curious as to what you hope to get out of this out of this interaction today. What do you want to make sure that we talked about.
iPhone: I want to make sure that, um, I guess I have a different experience that I've had with some other doctors and
iPhone: I just want to kind of be in like a judgment free zone where I can be very honest and like just say it like it is. Because I think that's the best way it's going to help me and
iPhone: As a result, helped my family and, you know, so I would look to be getting out of this, you know, will we take the next step forward in the best path to kind of help.
tracy jackson: Them.
iPhone: Get to where I need to go and just kind of going from there. I'm not, you know, I don't have too many expectations, just because the brand new system to me doing it this way. But that would be one of them.
tracy jackson: And when you mentioned get where you want to get where you're wanting to get. Tell me about that.
iPhone: Um, where I'd like to be is completely off of everything.
iPhone: That's that's important to me that it's been a long time and
iPhone: I've tried to do it on my own. So many times and I haven't been able to, and I don't know if I'm just a worse when it comes to pain or
iPhone: do certain things. But it's important to me that I do get off safely off of everything down the road. So I can move forward with my life. And, you know, not have this being the controlling dominant feature that seems to, you know, kind of control everything so
tracy jackson: So the pain is what's driving the use for the opioids and the having to the need for the few words and the withdrawal. If you don't have them is really limiting your ability to live the way that you want to live.
iPhone: Yes, and I think, you know, I mean it took me a while to figure it out. But I don't think that they oh boy isn't necessarily helping with the pain. I think they're just masking it. The pain is going to be there, either way.
iPhone: So I don't know. Good. They're really done. But yeah, I just the other people I've met with other doctors. I've talked to, they all said, Oh, no, we won't do Suboxone. No, no, no. You can go cold turkey or you can wean down and I'm thinking in my head like I've done that so many times.
iPhone: Tried that so many times. And it's not working. It just hasn't worked for me. I've done it. I've done it all. It's just nothing has worked so it's time for a new solution to put myself kind of first and just make sure it you know
iPhone: It's the right next step, I guess.
tracy jackson: And what do you believe are all the components that are contributing to your pain.
iPhone: Um, I think, Well, I think the stress from the pain itself and just the stigma around it and
iPhone: I feel like you get, you know, and which is funny because I used to be a criminal defense attorney, so right. A lot of my clients were addicts and, you know, and there's a stigma around people who take drugs and I feel that stigma.
iPhone: And I don't like it at all. It doesn't feel like who I am.
iPhone: There's a lot of different things of stress from being in pain from not being able to go out and necessarily do what I want to do when I want to do it, but I don't think the pain is necessarily the biggest problem I think it's the
iPhone: It's the opiates themselves and not being able to control the usage of them and the stoppage of them, and then I feel like they just wore my whole life basically
tracy jackson: To me, so there's a lot, I guess, when was the last time.
tracy jackson: You remember having
iPhone: Never having pain anywhere.
iPhone: Oh, gosh. Probably college
iPhone: Yeah I it was shortly after college. I had a couple injuries and then those kind of lead up and then, you know, in between there was nothing, and then
iPhone: Law School, and thereafter. It was always something always something was going on.
Okay.
tracy jackson: And to during this time when you were
tracy jackson: A kid, for instance, like in middle school or high school did you ever
tracy jackson: Because of headaches or belly affiliate
iPhone: Or no
tracy jackson: Yes, or any of that. So this was all
tracy jackson: cruising along and the
tracy jackson: Couple of injuries.
tracy jackson: And yeah, and were you were you given opioids right from the start with those injuries and
tracy jackson: Yeah.
iPhone: I mean, immediately, and I and I was back then. It wasn't even a thing. This is back in the you know college, I was in the early 2000s.
iPhone: I don't think it was even a, like a known issue with it back then they just kind of wrote your prescription for them and nobody ever told I never knew anything
iPhone: You know, and shame on me for not doing my research before the internet live, um, you know, I didn't know. I didn't I, if I would have known then what I know now kind of a thing, you know.
iPhone: But I did. I had some surgeries on my shoulders rotator cuffs advice. It was just kind of slowly along the way that it built up
tracy jackson: Okay, and what is have you been on a few words continuously since since you were in college.
iPhone: No, not continuously. I would say continuously over the last five, most of the last five years continuously but off and on, since college, not, not all the way through.
iPhone: Yeah.
tracy jackson: And what's your current use like what, what exactly you're using what doses, all that kind of stuff.
iPhone: Yeah so. Well, that's part of the problem of my tolerance has gotten
iPhone: I don't know if it's my tolerance or I don't know what it is exactly, but where I used to be able to take one. You know, one, three times a day. Now I can take six at a time. You know, every day, you know, it's changed completely. So I can take six
iPhone: Six tablets of the 10 milligram like Norco
tracy jackson: Mm hmm.
iPhone: And that will barely take the edge off.
tracy jackson: So,
iPhone: I don't think it's oh sorry, go ahead.
tracy jackson: And is that your is that the drug of choice right now as hydrocodone yeah
iPhone: That's what I take, yeah.
tracy jackson: And what is the maximum amount that you take in a day.
iPhone: And how many pills total a day. You mean yeah
tracy jackson: Or milligrams, if they're
iPhone: Um, I'd say between 10 and 20 pills a day.
tracy jackson: So up to the end of the 10 milligrams
Yes.
tracy jackson: Is that as high as you've ever gone or have you tolerated more in the past.
iPhone: I think that's the highest they've ever gone. I don't, I don't think I've ever tried to do more than that.
tracy jackson: Okay, and to 10 or 20 pills in a day for about how long has that been your daily regimen.
iPhone: Um, that that excessive not not that long. Um, maybe about the last two, three months. Okay.
tracy jackson: And are you getting that from
tracy jackson: Like pharmacies or from the street or a combination
Oh,
iPhone: From my
iPhone: From my doctor there the prescribed was I just don't take it one pill three times a day, I'll take
iPhone: Much, much more when I need to. And I try and go off of them and say, Okay, that's it. I'm done. I'm not taking any more of these, you know, and then
iPhone: 24 hours later, you know, and I'm sweating and, you know, ready to throw up and I'm like, Okay, I can't do it anymore, you know, have to take a few more so than it's just kind of a maintenance. So it's not like every day. It's 10 or 20 it's just in bunches of that makes sense.
tracy jackson: I think you're
tracy jackson: Kind of bingeing a little bit and then withdrawing and then
iPhone: And then kind of slowly crawling back up and then and then it'll be a binge and and then I never actually never really thought it is finished. But yeah, I guess kind of a binge to
iPhone: Then just say, Screw it. You know, I've got to take care of this right now and then take a lot of them.
iPhone: And then I'm not gonna do this anymore. And then back down it goes and then it closed back up and then it's a big amount again so
iPhone: It's just like vicious central go on and on and on and always trying to, like, and I'm like, what am I going to do. I've got to work this week. I've got a five year you know I can't
iPhone: I can't be in bed going through withdrawals. You know, I can't. I mean, I did it for one day. And that was awful or two days. And that was awful. And how am I gonna do this, you know, just out my limit with it.
tracy jackson: Well,
tracy jackson: What was your last if you
iPhone: Oh, I'm sorry. You cut out
Oh,
iPhone: Can you hear me okay
tracy jackson: Oh,
iPhone: Yeah. Oh, I might have to move around and get some weird reception out here. I'm the last, the last time I use it.
iPhone: That would have been yesterday. Yes, it was.
iPhone: Was just really been Monday to
iPhone: Tuesday. Yeah. Yes. So, would have been Sunday night. Okay.
iPhone: Sorry, I
iPhone: Couldn't in and out real bad.
iPhone: And just
tracy jackson: Slowly and work it out.
iPhone: Oh, sorry. You're frozen.
iPhone: Tell me when you can see or hear me.
tracy jackson: I can see in here you
iPhone: Know,
tracy jackson: Always do you take them by mouth or do you choose them or
iPhone: Get them.
iPhone: I just swallow them like normal pills.
Phrase ever had an accident.
iPhone: I'm so sorry I'm trying to get to a place like good reception.
tracy jackson: You ever have.
iPhone: Like Heather and had a what
tracy jackson: An accident.
tracy jackson: Yes.
iPhone: No, no overdose.
tracy jackson: Okay, do you take me benzodiazepines like Xanax or Klonopin or
iPhone: They've only given that to me when I had when I was going to have a procedure done. They've done a couple injections in my back and that was the only time
iPhone: Right before the procedures.
Okay.
tracy jackson: And tell me about to cleanse.
tracy jackson: Your opioid use, whether that's to your health to your social situation to your job any legal issues.
iPhone: No, no legal issues, mostly their consequences to me, which I'm sure trickle down to my family and my relationships.
iPhone: It's just I feel like it obviously is my fault for being in this position, and that then has an effect on them.
iPhone: You know, not just able to kind of get up and go anytime that I want. And, you know, go do something with my son or, you know, kind of have to be feeling this way or feeling that way. I can't, you know, get out of bed. I feel awful. I'm sit Mommy says, you know, simple design, you know,
iPhone: But it no no legal ramifications. I've never had an issue as far as that goes, but I'm
tracy jackson: still able to work for the most part.
iPhone: Yes. Yeah, I still work.
tracy jackson: Yeah, and then how about other substance other substances and this is like
tracy jackson: Throughout your nicotine.
iPhone: Okay, yeah. So I spoke. Yeah.
tracy jackson: And how much do you smoke and for how long.
iPhone: Um, it depends on which I smoke like between 10 and 20 a day, just depending on the for me. It's based on I base it on my anxiety level. You know how stressed, I am about whatever's going on that's kind of how much I smoke.
iPhone: The higher the stress more I'm smoking that's been going on since I was about age 25
iPhone: Okay.
tracy jackson: And any marijuana
iPhone: I tried it once and it wasn't really my thing. So I have tried the CBD oil on my back, you know, just to when it's flaring up to kind of see if that helps. But other than that, no. Okay.
tracy jackson: Um, any uppers Meth, Cocaine any Adderall.
tracy jackson: Any, any other substances of
tracy jackson: Alcohol.
iPhone: I'm not a drink. Now, I'm not a drinker, either. No.
tracy jackson: Okay. All right. And then in terms of your attempt, she mentioned that you've you've stopped cold turkey multiple times on your
tracy jackson: And any outpatient attempts at detox or inpatient
iPhone: And outpatient inpatient about it for years ago.
tracy jackson: And what happened there.
iPhone: And that was when well that kind of got sidelined. My, my husband and I ended up getting a divorce.
iPhone: And he was trying to get custody and so yeah so anyway I went through a 30 day you know residential program and
iPhone: They kind of did the cold turkey method, a little bit more there and a lot of field group therapy and everything. I really liked the therapy part but the cold turkey part was a
iPhone: It was difficult. So
tracy jackson: And then, what, what were the, what was the situation, how I guess how long were you clean and then what was the situation that led to the relapse, how long, how much later.
iPhone: Um, I think it was probably, probably six or eight months. That was totally didn't take anything after that and then
iPhone: Then that's when our divorce. Actually, he actually filed papers and
iPhone: Then the stress and you know i i had the baby. The full time, then you know I was kind of single mom at that point and full time with the baby and I was just not able to balance it all. And so I was emotionally in a lot of pain and physically
iPhone: And a lot of pain. Same with the same back injury, but then having to lift a baby all by yourself 24 seven. It made it a lot worse. So it's kind of a combination, but I know I'm pretty sure at that point even there's some emotional, you know,
iPhone: Pain going on that I was probably using to cover up with the with the pills. Yeah, I mean,
tracy jackson: I guess I never told you anything about myself. I'm sorry.
tracy jackson: I'm actually an anesthesiologist trained was an interventional pain physician trained at Stanford back in around the time that you were starting to take pills, where we thought you could give 800 milligrams of oxycodone to everybody, you know, all that kind of thing.
tracy jackson: And then I was at Vanderbilt for 12 years running their pain program there and I gradually started to realize that our system really hurts people particularly pain and stigmatizes very traumatizing doesn't make any sense. So I became a yoga instructor and acupuncture is to help
iPhone: Oh,
tracy jackson: I've done retreats to get people off paying became an addiction knowledge just
tracy jackson: So I can help with this. And so my role at bright heart really is.
tracy jackson: And to your point earlier is not to stigmatize. This is just harm reduction, you're trying to get better.
tracy jackson: Yeah, we're not trying to kick you out of the
tracy jackson: Pain Clinic.
tracy jackson: If you have an abnormal drug test we're trying to just see you more frequently.
tracy jackson: Closer not kick you out, you know, that kind of thing. We recognize that when people have been receiving opioids externally for a long time, your body quits making the natural endorphins and it takes a while for them to rebuild again.
tracy jackson: And also you know when when we separate physical and emotional pain in Western medicine.
iPhone: Yeah, the
tracy jackson: reasons for that. I mean, it's understandable why we do that, particularly as a woman because you get told you know that it's it's hysterical woman disease. It's all in your head, you know,
Right.
iPhone: Oh, yeah.
tracy jackson: In reality, I describe this with pain. It's like you're going camping with, you know, with your friends and you're in two separate tense.
tracy jackson: And a bear comes in and bites off your left foot and bites off your friends left foot. So you both have amputations, but the bear is only in one of the tense.
tracy jackson: So the pain response is very different, even in with very real physical injury or, or, you know, nerve pain or whatever you have genetically from trauma from injuries from accidents, the bear in the room will affect
iPhone: You know, yes.
tracy jackson: The threat level and the amount of
tracy jackson: A reaction that your body will mount and so it's all kind of together. So everything at bright heart I do do intakes like this, particularly on patients who have primary pain driven
tracy jackson: And substance use and have been sort of screwed by the system, so to speak, you know, it's like trying to figure out their hundred ways to cook rice, you know, but
tracy jackson: Everything's taken from our environment. What we see what we put in our bodies to eat what we hear how we move, how we communicate
tracy jackson: How our body deals with the pain signal that's kind of constituency coming in all that matters. And there's no, like, quick magic fix because, you know, right, it works, you would have found it by now.
iPhone: Yeah.
tracy jackson: But the issue is that over time. There is a lot of Neuro plasticity and everything we do to create a sense of safety, you know, the bear to get out of the tent.
tracy jackson: Right everything new not sticking our head in the sand not denying it. But figuring out all that wow what all those components may be specifically for you moving towards the things that bring you joy.
tracy jackson: Like your values, your strengths and a from things that shame me, you know, right.
tracy jackson: Right words. Good thing and providing a little Suboxone to keep that cyclical craving while your body is making remaking some endorphins.
tracy jackson: You know that, you know, to keep you just without craving.
buprenorphine.
tracy jackson: Has a little bit of an anti depressant effect as well and but it's
tracy jackson: Certainly it's certainly safe, like it's really, really hard to overdose on buprenorphine.
tracy jackson: As always when you mix, mix Suboxone or buprenorphine is the name of the drug with something like Xanax, it's still much more risky. So
A lot of times
tracy jackson: We try, you know, we'll try to get you in the program. I can start the medication.
tracy jackson: Will go through. I'll explain this to you at the end. I'd still want to get a little better but just so you kind of know what to expect the ideas we give
tracy jackson: The lowest dose of the Suboxone that you need to get you out of withdrawal and allow you to go to work and parent and do the things you need to do.
iPhone: Okay.
tracy jackson: We'll see you frequently. So you'll see me probably with me. What we'll do is you'll see me twice in a group that's about prescriptions. How you doing with your medicines have any side effects bubble, blah.
tracy jackson: And then the
tracy jackson: Month. So I'm the alternating weeks twice a month we did paying groups and in those I get the science behind different things that might work.
tracy jackson: We do often a little diabetic not didactic, but a little experiential thing. So for talking about yoga will do some chair yoga for talking about that. It's Jim will do some meditation. If we talk about, then we'll
tracy jackson: Give ideas. But all this, the idea is it's free and it's accessible from right where you are so
iPhone: Yeah.
tracy jackson: The answer questions about acupuncture and things like that. But that's not accessible or affordable to a lot of people. So if we talk about that we
tracy jackson: Do you know that kind of
tracy jackson: So, so it's kind of like will see you every week starting just early upfront every week, but it will always be like this telemedicine.
tracy jackson: And then after that.
tracy jackson: In the next week we'll also get you set up to see one of our counselors or therapist and they'll just do what we call a
tracy jackson: Bio psychosocial assessment. So just kind of talking to you about what your needs. Maybe what you'd like. And some people. That's it. And some people, they say, well, maybe, you know, seeing me once a month, and we're kind of helpful, but that's kind of the team approach that we take and
tracy jackson: We need thing. It's never meant to be punitive honesty is never punished up right heart. Okay.
iPhone: Oh, that's
tracy jackson: The thing that we do is
tracy jackson: If it seems like you're struggling skipping meetings, not having drug tests we just sort of shorten the duration of your prescriptions.
tracy jackson: Said it should
tracy jackson: Be closer because, clearly there's something we're not doing well.
iPhone: A nice. Okay, no, that makes
iPhone: And it just just sorry. Quick question up front.
iPhone: First of all, do you mind if I smoke over on the phone.
iPhone: And second of all,
iPhone: My more important question is I'm always trying to balance out financially taking care of my son and taking care of myself and usually comes before me.
iPhone: Every single time for some of these meetings, I know you said, I know that this isn't about my insurance deductible. But isn't on a sliding scale or monthly meeting or is our weekly meeting or is it just how
tracy jackson: Normally the weekly meetings are covered. Do you have Medicare. Do you have
tracy jackson: commercial insurance of some sort.
iPhone: I do
iPhone: Yeah, I do.
tracy jackson: Normally the meetings are covered after this meeting. I'm going to transfer you back to the virtual clinic, which is the 408 number or you'll call them back. They'll make sure that they go over all the information with you the surveys and things. We need you to fill out. Did I just freeze.
tracy jackson: Okay.
tracy jackson: Yeah, the surveys and things
tracy jackson: And they'll go over all the finances and stuff with you because we
tracy jackson: Understand, everybody has issues. It's normally
tracy jackson: Up front but if you're able to, you know, you obviously have a lot of good
tracy jackson: prognostic indicators for success. You've got a stable job you've got, you know, a home you have
tracy jackson: You know you have a lot of stability and
tracy jackson: We're in your life and and oftentimes in that scenario we can end up you know if you're showing up for all the meetings and you're doing really well and you're feeling safe, then we see you once a month, something like
iPhone: You know,
tracy jackson: It can, it can extend out over time.
iPhone: It just
tracy jackson: A little bit more intense up front so
iPhone: No. That makes perfect sense.
iPhone: Yeah, no. That makes total sense. And how long does one usually on. I'm sorry. And it was it Suboxone or sub you Tex is there.
tracy jackson: Is there different Suboxone so
tracy jackson: The one they use
tracy jackson: Intra Muscular early in the inpatient do
tracy jackson: But it's all buprenorphine that
tracy jackson: Yeah, so it will be a will be a film.
tracy jackson: That you'll
tracy jackson: Between your cheek and your tea and dissolve. So you can if you just do it up and swallowed it doesn't work. So you just kind of had to have to let it dissolve it does not taste great.
iPhone: Okay.
tracy jackson: But there will be a protocol that they'll go through in the virtual
tracy jackson: clinic where people will start on the lowest dose you'll wait an hour and all that.
tracy jackson: kicker with
tracy jackson: Some things me
tracy jackson: It's some
tracy jackson: Okay. Oh.
iPhone: And kind of hear you.
iPhone: I can see you.
iPhone: There we go. Okay.
iPhone: Oh, you're cutting in and out again, sorry.
iPhone: I'm wait
tracy jackson: So with this Suboxone
Okay.
tracy jackson: Can you hear me. Yep.
tracy jackson: Yeah, I just
tracy jackson: With this Suboxone it's the most powerful opioid out there are full than heroin fentanyl all these medicines. Okay, so when you take Suboxone okay it will bump everything in your system off of the receptor.
iPhone: Okay, okay.
tracy jackson: If you
tracy jackson: Were you were taking it's a waste of your money.
If you fail.
iPhone: It. I missed that last bit.
tracy jackson: If you take hydrocodone while you're on Suboxone yeah
iPhone: It would kick it off.
tracy jackson: That's nothing will have
tracy jackson: Rich sitting there on the receptor. So if you do feel something, it's plus eat.
tracy jackson: When you're hungry and you're you eat. Yeah.
tracy jackson: You feel
tracy jackson: So much better even before the food goes through your system.
iPhone: Right placebo.
tracy jackson: Same thing. So the Suboxone keeps you from feeling the effects of the hydrocodone
Okay.
tracy jackson: And if you are not in complete withdrawal.
tracy jackson: About significant miserable goose.
tracy jackson: Area.
tracy jackson: will precipitate draw you ever had. There's no way to get out of it. So the key with the first dose of Suboxone
tracy jackson: Yeah, that you have to
tracy jackson: Play until you are
iPhone: Miserable. Yeah.
iPhone: I think you froze up a little bit.
iPhone: Oh, darn it, we have the worst.
iPhone: I'm so sorry. We keep losing each other.
iPhone: So it will throw you into immediate withdrawals.
tracy jackson: Yeah, but if you're already in with
tracy jackson: The first. Oh, you take out of withdrawal, but that's
tracy jackson: Okay thing and they'll go over this and
tracy jackson: They'll go
tracy jackson: They'll give you for how you roll.
iPhone: Oh, sorry. They
tracy jackson: Will they will watch you know
iPhone: Oh darn okay see you moving. Now that's a good sign.
iPhone: Do. Is there a way you want to do, we call on the phone to hear each other or is it
tracy jackson: Why don't we, why don't you see your video and see if that helps stop the video so hit the screen.
Okay.
iPhone: If your
tracy jackson: Video screen and
iPhone: Hit the yeah so
tracy jackson: Can you hear me better now.
iPhone: I can't. Yeah, I still cutting in and out a little bit, but I can hear you. Okay, let's try that.
tracy jackson: Okay, so once again with the Suboxone if you it's the most powerful opioid out there, it binds to the receptor stronger than anything else. Okay.
tracy jackson: Okay, if you have hydrocodone still on your receptors.
tracy jackson: And you take Suboxone it will pitch you into significant withdrawal that will be possible for you to get out of
tracy jackson: First does. You have to wait until you are in the worst withdrawal that you can stand and
tracy jackson: Then you will take the first Suboxone pill and then it will take you out of the withdrawal immediately.
tracy jackson: Okay, so
tracy jackson: All of this will be described to you in detail in the virtual clinic, but I say this, just to describe that the way Suboxone works is it works slightly differently works more on the spinal cord pain receptors and then the brain one, so it's less likely for you to overdose, which is safe.
tracy jackson: It's very long acting
tracy jackson: So typically you only have to take it once a day, although some people do take it twice a day.
tracy jackson: Okay, like
iPhone: What no morning was at night.
iPhone: Or just it just depends on when you first.
tracy jackson: First, yeah. Yeah, it kind of just depends. Most people do like a 12 hours and eight in the morning eight at night or they'll just take one does in the morning and it will depend on what your responses.
tracy jackson: So there's a little bit flexibility that the virtual clinic will go through and how you
tracy jackson: Dose this first week to get to the dose that's right for you. The virtual clinic is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
tracy jackson: So okay questions you have, you can call them and somebody will be able to help you. So that's just a sort of nuts and bolts about that.
tracy jackson: Okay, great. If you're not taking any benzodiazepines. I saw you maybe have one prescription for Xanax earlier in March. Is that right, yes.
iPhone: That's what I was they had originally scheduled me to have my back down. When I was saying, the only prescribed for my back injections. Yeah, because I get to 24 and because they weren't working
iPhone: Okay.
iPhone: All right, yeah.
tracy jackson: But
iPhone: They've done like two pills at a time for when I need you know the
iPhone: Any kind of injections.
tracy jackson: Alright, so we don't need to. So there is a reversal agent called narc, can you may have heard about Narcan what
iPhone: I have
tracy jackson: But, you know, normally in some states. I don't think California does been some sites they require you to write a prescription for Narcan at the same time as you write Suboxone and just in case to have around.
tracy jackson: Open if you and if you feel comfortable that you're never had an overdose. In the past, you're not going to take benzodiazepines or drink on top of it, then
tracy jackson: It's probably fine. Not to have it. Of course there in all the ambulances and all that kind of things, but it's just one of those things. We always say is an extra added safety measure that the location.
tracy jackson: Is is very safe. The biggest side effects are just like all opioids, they may make you a little dizzy.
tracy jackson: They may give you a little energy actually at first. So some people report that their sleep isn't as great. To start, but that's kind of that activating anti depressant effect to the buprenorphine a little bit
tracy jackson: But the G. It doesn't tend to be is nausea, nausea, vomiting and constipation is other opioid so it's generally pretty well tolerated.
tracy jackson: And okay, great. The other thing is if you ever need surgery elective surgery, you have to make sure that you tell your doctors ahead of time.
tracy jackson: And tell us ahead of time so that we can figure out what to do with the Suboxone because let's say you need surgery and then they want to give you additional pain medicine after the surgery.
tracy jackson: It won't work.
tracy jackson: It doesn't work while you're on the Suboxone so depending you either will increase the Suboxone after the surgery for pain relief because it isn't a few we type medication, just as just a different one.
tracy jackson: But, or they if it's a big surgery they might want you to come off the Suboxone for a period of time, then take whatever they want to give you for paying control and then go back on this box on afterwards. So it's just always like to let people know about that they can
iPhone: Listen. Oh, yeah.
tracy jackson: If you're in a car accident, whatever they can handle it. They will figure it out. Right. But it's much smoother, if you know you're having elective surgery to work around it. And those are really the biggest issues with Suboxone that are different from other other IV fluids.
iPhone: And how long are people normally on the origin, which is very person to person.
tracy jackson: It's very person to person Suboxone it's been around quite a while. So we do know that it's safe in terms of like
tracy jackson: You know, we don't see liver, heart, lung kidney toxicity from long term Suboxone use. And in fact, for people who are really, really struggling with addiction and heroin for many, many years. A lot of them.
iPhone: On Suboxone forever, right.
tracy jackson: I mean, they're just on Suboxone for the foreseeable future, in my experience with people like you who have who have pain and have been on short acting opioids and you're actually on a relatively mild to moderate dose, I would say.
tracy jackson: Right, that many times it's just a matter of getting you stabilized out you know for let's say six months a year during that time you're continuing to see us in the pain group work on other way to manage your pain. A lot of times the
tracy jackson: Procedures that you will have had done in the past that maybe worked initially they start to work better.
tracy jackson: As you have a little less what we call hyper out GG hydrocodone and those medicines can actually cause you to be able to feel more pain right
tracy jackson: Is that gets a little you know as you come off of that the procedures may work a little better still choose to have them you're
tracy jackson: Certainly, Your coping skills and the different tools in your toolbox should improve your neuroplasticity will change. And so after that time, we can just start I say if you're really motivated. We can try three months, but
tracy jackson: You want to try a little longer, we certainly can start type trading down
iPhone: I was it
iPhone: Is it the milligrams, do the strips come in different milligrams, or is it just all one
tracy jackson: They come in different milligrams and people will cut the strips in half and quarters and all that kind of stuff that they really need to
iPhone: Okay.
iPhone: Yeah. Yeah, I feel, I feel like, Oh, I just personally. Like right now I have a pretty good talent, just for how many years I've been on everything and
iPhone: That I can take so many at one time, but I don't know if that actually
iPhone: Is different. When it comes to this prescription, just because I've never been on it so
tracy jackson: Yeah, I mean, we will see that is the whole purpose of the index should pray to call you know with you anyway. He started with the low dose, we allow you to almost triple that dose in the first 24 hours if you need to.
tracy jackson: I would just encourage you to the bottom line is quite a bit more powerful than the
tracy jackson: Other medicines that you've been taking so take what you need.
tracy jackson: Me. Right. Do not do not have withdraw. Okay, find that, you know, however, your symptoms are controlled in your you don't feel withdrawal, you're not having cravings. There's no need to bump up to a higher dose to try to necessarily
tracy jackson: Control all of your pain right because you still have some downs of pain. So this about son is not meant to take your pain all the way away. I don't think that you expect that having happy.
iPhone: Valley downtime.
tracy jackson: But certainly Suboxone is not quite the same as, you know, you take double the hydrocodone you get double the pain relief, it doesn't really tend to work that way with Suboxone so
iPhone: You will experience.
tracy jackson: That you will experience pain control for sure. But the major thing is we just want to make sure we keep you out of withdrawal. And out of that feeling of just up down seesaw.
tracy jackson: seesaw agitation pains were sort of thing. So the goal is to kind of level the boat a little bit. That makes sense.
iPhone: Yeah, that's what would be so wonderful is not having that up and down, up and down, you know, that just such a miserable way to live. You know,
tracy jackson: Tell me.
tracy jackson: Tell me, Natasha, what do you do, you know, and all the years you've been managing your pain there will have been a lot of stuff that's just kind of here there what what things have been either really effective or really not effective. Don't want to try that again sort of thing.
iPhone: For me, physical therapy has been just an absolute no go. For me it just has not worked for me ever
iPhone: I've, I've done chiropractic I've done massage
iPhone: Really what my pain. First it was right after the birth of my son who was a heavy. I'm a diabetic. He was a heavy baby, and it's just a bad combination, but I think I have tried a lot of things. Sometimes I just ice will help
iPhone: Laying down some ice.
iPhone: You know, laying in a certain position will help you know standing all day or, you know, doing stuff really physical things will hurt it. So I just kind of, you know, it really depends on if I'm feeling that much pain or not that day. You know what I mean. As to what will work.
iPhone: Right, for I even bought the little biofeedback machine, you know, and slap those on there and try that, you know,
tracy jackson: Okay. And in terms of what you do on a regular basis for sort of maintenance, whether that's movement stretching breathing prayer, meditation, talk to me about kind of what what you do to try to keep it in check.
iPhone: And I will, I will. Before this whole coven thing I would you know go walking or go to the gym, you know, do what I could do that with my with my son outside, you know, kick a soccer ball or a football around with him.
iPhone: We sit down with my partner, my boyfriend and you know we have a nice talk or, you know, we bounce ideas off of each other. And that's just, you know, kind of one of my ways of keeping things in check and
iPhone: You know, listening to music, you know, whatever the case may be.
tracy jackson: Okay. Um, and how, how would you describe your mood in the current moment.
iPhone: Maybe a little bit anxious just because I know I'm starting to feel the
iPhone: Kind of the hot and cold.
iPhone: You know a little bit anxious for that to go away because I know I have a whole work day ahead of me, but I think pretty good overall I feel really excited that I even found you guys. And so I'm really like hopeful and excited. Okay.
tracy jackson: Have you ever suffered from panic to see any panic attacks or anything.
iPhone: I did when I was in law school, I would get quite a few panic attacks, but I haven't had that
iPhone: May well my dad died. But other than that, not just in general, it's usually something has happened to precipitate that
iPhone: Right. But, um,
tracy jackson: Would you have you ever been suicidal.
iPhone: No, never.
tracy jackson: Ever experienced anything and you do not have to give details, but any every experience. Same thing you would consider to be traumatic in your life.
iPhone: Um no I wouldn't say dramatic no
tracy jackson: No nightmares, flashbacks.
iPhone: Come to
tracy jackson: Me that thing. Okay.
tracy jackson: And then in terms of your past medical history. Any other medical problems that you know
iPhone: I'm just the diabetes. I have a pump for it.
iPhone: Like as I had my rotator cuffs.
Fixed
iPhone: That's really about it.
tracy jackson: And other than your insulin pump. Any other medications that you take every day.
iPhone: Just the gabapentin
tracy jackson: Okay, and how much gabapentin
iPhone: Well, I think I have. I think they changed the prescription, but I think it was it 600 milligrams six times a day.
tracy jackson: 606 something. Okay. And who's reading that medicine.
iPhone: And what my primary was writing it. And then when I went to the pain management plays. You think they switched it they took over writing it, I think.
tracy jackson: And. Are you still seeing that pain group.
iPhone: Well, I was seeing numb. And then when I saw them last about us about two weeks ago they refuse to put me in refuse to let me get off so
iPhone: I had to stay on them. And so I just kind of left everything the way it was. I went for a second opinion and I decided just to do my own research and that's when I found you guys this weekend.
tracy jackson: So I'm happy to write the gabapentin for you. Do you feel that it's being that it's helpful for you.
iPhone: You know I do. I feel like because I have a little bit of neuropathy from the diabetes.
iPhone: Just in my feet. I feel like it does help with that. I don't feel like I have to take it all the time. So sometimes it's like there's days where I don't have to take it.
iPhone: To kind of as needed. I don't really know if government is supposed to be an as me to drug, but
tracy jackson: It works a little better. If it's in your system, all the time, but I do have people that find it really
tracy jackson: makes them feel a little stupid, particularly if you're in your a job that requires a lot of cognitive capacity, like your legal work. So I just do have people that sometimes we'll do 300 and then they wake up 300 at lunch and then take 1200 or 1800 at night to help them.
iPhone: Slow. Okay.
tracy jackson: Or, you know, so they kind of will stagger there. Does that base six times a day, seems like kind of
iPhone: Yeah, so
tracy jackson: Normally I normally do 1200 three at the maximum dose is what your own so you can if you want to stick with the maximum dose, you know, 1200 three times a day, but like you say, if you're finding that kind of
tracy jackson: keeping you from functioning. You can do 600 600 and then LIKE MAYBE LATER AT NIGHT AFTER Luca goes to bed. You could take a bigger dose. So it's, there's a lot of flexibility and how you take that
Okay.
iPhone: Perfect.
tracy jackson: Any other medications.
iPhone: You know, I know that they prescribed me sleep medications before, but I don't actually use them, but I didn't like I always felt super hung over the next morning, so I just started. Oh, and flexor all and sorry they have mental muscle relaxer flexible.
tracy jackson: And how much that's true.
iPhone: I think 10 milligrams twice a day. Okay.
tracy jackson: And are you interested in having any medicines like for nausea, diarrhea, kind of opportunities to build a feeling during your withdrawal period.
iPhone: Yeah, definitely. Maybe the nausea about a lot of stomach medication here so that should be okay. But, um, yeah, definitely the nausea, that would help.
tracy jackson: So I'll call you in just a couple of prescriptions to help with the just in the short term with the week before you start on the Suboxone and then the Gabba penta maybe you can try that. If you're having trouble with sleep, just a bigger dice at night and smaller district, the day
iPhone: Open trouble you. Can I would it be all right if I switched pharmacies. My son was actually a little last night. So I found a CVS. That was open 24 hours right down the street from me.
iPhone: Instead of the pharmacy. I told them, which is way across town so
iPhone: I don't know if that's possible, but it'll be much
tracy jackson: more convenient which road and city is it in
iPhone: And it's going to be
iPhone: It CDs and it's on. I was in Washington Street and Bermuda dunes.
tracy jackson: Is the name of the town for me to do.
iPhone: Yes, for me to do.
tracy jackson: All right. Um so flux real 10 milligrams twice a day Gabba Penton 600 milligrams six times a day, and then
tracy jackson: Knowledge, the medicine and and the Suboxone or the only way rather than your insulin pump.
iPhone: Yes, that's correct.
tracy jackson: And you currently live with Luca, and the two cats. Anybody else he relationships.
iPhone: So it's just my boyfriend and I both live here. I have my son, and the two dogs. Yep, that's
tracy jackson: It. Okay. Do you feel safe in the home.
tracy jackson: I do. Okay. Any insecurity around food, shelter, safety.
tracy jackson: No. Okay. Um, and then, have you ever done any a in a sort of thing.
iPhone: I have yeah I have done well I think from early when I was going. It was a group that met more often. So I went to those meetings as I didn't go to the NA meetings as much but. Either one is fine with me.
tracy jackson: And then, yeah, I kind of leave it up to people if you know the program works for a lot of people. Some people are really against it, for whatever reason, but I do let you know that the vast majority of the a and na meetings in the past six weeks have gone online.
iPhone: Yes, they have.
iPhone: Thought that
tracy jackson: Was just something that, at least in the short term. If you feel like you need some extra support and that's something you can look into as well.
tracy jackson: Okay, generally pretty, pretty easy to track down what they are in the area or call the call the numbers of what the in person meetings would be in Nigeria, we can tell you what so
iPhone: Perfect. Just one other question with the Suboxone. Is there a specific our number of hours are just as based on symptoms. So it's not like 12 to 24 to 48 hours after you last take the other medication or is it just when you feel like the symptoms you
tracy jackson: Know, go over and don't worry, they'll go over this with you all over again. Don't worry about
tracy jackson: Um, but, generally you start with a with a dose of a certain milligrams and and then after your withdrawal. So you will actually call
tracy jackson: Your first dose in front of them and you know they'll kind of walk you through what you should what you should feel
tracy jackson: And then they'll have a little sheet written out for you. Like if you feel that you're still having withdrawal after two hours. Take this much and then wait this long. And so in the first
tracy jackson: Day, you'll sort of tight right what you need to feel well. And then on the second day, you would take that does all in one time, you know, you'd
tracy jackson: Like if you took four four and for you within the next day you would take 12 right all the time and see what happens. That kind of thing.
tracy jackson: And some people feel like that's too much. So it's a little bit of an up and down.
tracy jackson: Knots, you know, so it will depend. And you can start whenever you want to write, you know, if it's easier for you to start. I don't know what your work schedule is. But if you want to give yourself, you know,
tracy jackson: Just two or three days to kind of deal with the withdrawal and the first couple of days not to schedule anything like super important.
tracy jackson: Right, that's what I generally recommend to kind of give yourself four days, I guess, three or three days at least to sort of like get through the withdrawal and then get the dose to where you can feel comfortable
iPhone: Okay, perfect. Yeah.
tracy jackson: And then other than your shoulder surgery was it left or right shoulder.
iPhone: both shoulders.
tracy jackson: My shoulders and and just one time I
iPhone: Yes, just one time on each shoulder
tracy jackson: Shoulder. Okay, any other surgeries.
iPhone: I had a foot surgery pie 20 years ago.
iPhone: I don't even remember what that was for. I think they face awesome nodules, and then they determined it was nothing. I had my tonsils out and that I think that, oh, and a C section with my son, and that was
tracy jackson: And and just the one son.
Just been for that once
tracy jackson: And any allergies to medications.
iPhone: Not that I know of, no.
tracy jackson: No family history of pain addiction or other serious medical problems in your parents.
iPhone: Nope, nothing. Okay.
tracy jackson: And what's your current height and weight approximately
tracy jackson: 561 60 okay and. Can you feel your pulse. You know how to find your pulse.
tracy jackson: Yeah, so just I'm assuming you're not feeling in withdrawal at the moment.
iPhone: No, I am I definitely am
tracy jackson: You are. Okay. So, all right. Tell me what symptoms. You're having a beer withdrawal.
iPhone: Definitely sweating hot and cold goosebumps.
tracy jackson: Okay. And are you feeling restless.
iPhone: A little bit and looks like. I just want to lay down not do anything.
tracy jackson: And if you can feel your pulse. I'm going to tell you
iPhone: When to
tracy jackson: start and stop okay and I'm
tracy jackson: Good. All right, 123 go
tracy jackson: Okay, stop. How many was that
tracy jackson: Okay.
tracy jackson: And then any runny nose.
iPhone: A little bit. Okay.
tracy jackson: And any GI symptoms cramping, vomiting, diarrhea,
iPhone: Not yet.
tracy jackson: Any yawning.
iPhone: A little bit of yawning.
tracy jackson: Right. And he said, You've got some goose flush your hair standing up any day.
tracy jackson: Or any trimmer. Are you shaking
iPhone: Yesterday I was desperate toward the evening. Yes.
tracy jackson: Alright, so we have a little scale and they'll go over this scale with you again. But you probably are at
tracy jackson: Moderate withdrawal, you know, just at the beginning of moderate withdrawal and we really
tracy jackson: Moderately severe, you know, before. Before we get it so got a little ways ahead of you. But at right after this. I'll call in the medicine and I'll call him the medicine for withdrawal symptoms and I also call them the Suboxone so that you can have those
iPhone: Oh gosh, I would pick them all up today and then
iPhone: The clinic would work with me.
iPhone: Yeah, through them.
iPhone: Yep.
tracy jackson: And I feel like you're ready to take it you just call them. Okay.
iPhone: Oh, perfect.
tracy jackson: So much. Yeah. And then let's see last questions. Do you have any allergies. I'm on various he does he have allergy.
iPhone: Asthma
iPhone: No, I do not know allergies.
tracy jackson: All your cancer screenings. Everything else today.
iPhone: Everything is up today. Yes.
tracy jackson: Okay, and then I'm just going to go through this laundry list of stuff. Okay.
tracy jackson: Okay, so basically if you just say yes or no.
tracy jackson: Okay and I'm going to listen. The whole bunch of things. All right. Like, like, headache, just in general, like do
iPhone: Not like right now, just in general, like, Yeah, get them.
iPhone: Yes, yes.
tracy jackson: Do you have any blurred vision, double vision.
tracy jackson: Miller.
tracy jackson: That visual problems.
tracy jackson: Any ringing in your ears are hearing problems.
tracy jackson: Know any difficulty swallowing.
tracy jackson: Nope, any pain or lumps, anything like that.
Yeah.
tracy jackson: Okay, um, any heart chest pain, shortness of breath, heart palpitations.
Nope.
tracy jackson: And any trouble breathing any wheezing.
tracy jackson: Any fevers, chills, night sweats.
iPhone: I'm just the chills from the jaws. Yeah.
tracy jackson: Any problems.
tracy jackson: With your urination burning when you pee frequency
tracy jackson: Being any kind of
tracy jackson: Any problems that you know with your liver, kidneys, or guts on a regular basis.
iPhone: No. Okay.
And
tracy jackson: What else
tracy jackson: musculoskeletal stuff you're paying you said you've got painting your back in a new operations of pain.
iPhone: Know,
tracy jackson: You guys was mainly just low back pain. Any arthritis, you have in your rotator cuff.
iPhone: No.
iPhone: No, yeah, no, nothing else there. Okay.
tracy jackson: Um, any industry ISIS pelvic pain, pain was sex, sexual
tracy jackson: Or anything like that.
iPhone: Yeah, nothing.
tracy jackson: Anything else you feel like I haven't asked you that I should know to be able to understand your story.
iPhone: You know, I, not that I can think of. You've been very thorough and I really appreciate that you're didn't judge any of it or anything that I had to say and that you just, you know, I really appreciate that.
tracy jackson: Yeah, no problem. And so again, just repetition. This is what's going to happen now. Okay. And when you hang up with me. Your call the virtual clinic again until them. We've had her talk
tracy jackson: And they are going to ask you to get some labs and talk to you about the first drug screen, the way that they do a drug screen is they'll mail you a package to your house, do not open the package. When you receive it.
tracy jackson: All the virtual clinic again and they'll
tracy jackson: You know, you open the package in front of them and then like go and pee in the cup and come back and show them the cup and that kind of thing. That's how they do the drugs. Oh.
iPhone: Cool. Okay.
tracy jackson: So you'll do drug screens that way they'll need to get some initial labs. That's just to check for sort of infectious diseases and hepatitis and, you know, liver and kidney function because of the medicines we right he
tracy jackson: Oh, but you only do that once
tracy jackson: And they'll also be a couple of surveys, we want you to fill out one is a pain survey which just gives us some baseline information about your pain and the other is what's called a brief addiction monitor
iPhone: Don't be thrown off by the
tracy jackson: Gym.
iPhone: But we just use that every
tracy jackson: Week before the group meetings, just to follow people over time, looks at things like sleep and safety and social functioning and if you've if you've used an athlete, something that doesn't stop. Again, fill it out. Honestly, it's not meant to kick you out no matter what it says. Okay.
tracy jackson: Okay, so your, your call them and they'll go over all this with you afterwards. Okay.
tracy jackson: They'll set you up.
tracy jackson: To appointments one with me in
tracy jackson: A group setting, which I did my groups on Wednesdays at 130 Pacific
tracy jackson: I don't know if that works for you, but we'll try to work around and find something to work, but that's
tracy jackson: They'll set you up in groups of you see me every week, you know, to follow up.
tracy jackson: And they'll also schedule you the appointment with the therapist but we talked about and then they'll figure out after that what you need. If anything,
tracy jackson: But that's it. To follow up appointment with me in a week, which will be in a group setting the follow up with the therapy or the first appointment with the therapist, which will be one on one.
tracy jackson: And then today they're going to get you labs and urine drug screen coordinated have some surveys. And then, in the meantime, I'm going to be calling in all these prescriptions to the CVS on ready down
iPhone: Washington State. Yeah.
iPhone: Don't me find the phone number for you.
tracy jackson: Might be helpful.
tracy jackson: I'll figure it out for sure.
iPhone: It's right on Washington and 42nd
iPhone: Three. I will
Be
iPhone: I think I found you. Good for you.
iPhone: It's 760345
iPhone: Sorry, they're good to go. I'm sorry, that was 345359
tracy jackson: Okay.
tracy jackson: And then the last thing to remind me is that showing up to these appointments, particularly are really important. Again, it's not to punish you. But if you start missing appointment and that kind of thing we have to will shorten your prescription link right
tracy jackson: The length of time between when you see us and the length of your prescriptions will
Increase
tracy jackson: Or
iPhone: Availability available.
Okay, perfect.
iPhone: Okay.
tracy jackson: Any other questions.
iPhone: I think is the as the virtual clinic phone number.
iPhone: Is that just the name, phone number, that shows up on the website.
tracy jackson: Um, do you know you know how you got to zoom number to call me that started with 423
tracy jackson: Yes, okay. There's is the one that starts with did you
iPhone: Do. Yeah.
iPhone: Yeah, I sure do.
tracy jackson: Yeah, so just call them there with that for a number and then also how interested are you in smoking cessation.
iPhone: Um, I was trying to Chantix once
iPhone: And I didn't really seem to help me. So I'm not I am interested in doing it. I was just
iPhone: Trying to pick which one, which
tracy jackson: I mean, I absolutely think will do the Suboxone. I just want you to know. I'll bring it up.
tracy jackson: Again, not to pressure you it's on your entire course. But if you want to have tried patches or gum have insurance cover those sorts of things.
tracy jackson: Oh, any of that. I just want you know that's available to you and I'll and I'll bug you about it again. It's not like it's not a
tracy jackson: It's neither here nor there. This week,
tracy jackson: We'll be together for quite some time.
tracy jackson: But we just get you stabilized out and go from there. Okay.
iPhone: Perfect. That sounds good. Thank you so much. I'll just go ahead and hang up with you and then call them right back.
iPhone: Exactly. Okay. Thank you so much for talking with me today.
tracy jackson: You're welcome. Okay.
iPhone: Okay. Thank you. Bye bye. Bye.